this is a rocket-powered Golf Club
professional golfers have an average
swing speed of 110 miles per hour but
using two F size motors she swings at
150 miles per hour every time usually
for builds on my channel I just show you
guys the final thing and don't really
talk about the process of how we got
there I rest assured today we will get
to see huge drives whoa golf balls
shattering glass and super slow-mo
pulverized watermelons and even a
handheld version but this build I think
is a great chance to pull back the
curtain and demonstrate how the
engineering design process actually
works I want to highlight six learning
opportunities that led us to this final
design and to do that we need to go back
in time for months to when I first had
the idea and as always we started with a
simple prototype to see if the concept
even had a remote chance of working but
before we fire it up you'll notice we
have counterweights on the opposite side
here that's so that the center of mass
of the spinning part is on top of the
axis of rotation in other words it
balances perfectly at the point at which
it spins around if you don't do that for
something that spins it creates a bunch
of extra force for your system to deal
with it starts as a small vibration but
then it gets worse and worse as you pick
up speed since we needed at this tiny
ball with the head of this club at
really high speeds if we're not
perfectly balanced the club and the
whole platform itself we're just shaking
all over the place and we'd never hit it
okay back to the test those stands are
shaking more than they should so we knew
we would need to balance the spinning
part better for the real test but at
least we knew it could go kind of fast
and nothing blows up and so then it was
time for CAD which is always the next
step and then together with my friends
Ken and Kayla we started cutting metal
and making stuff
[Music]
things came together well so we epoxy at
a 3d printed motor mount to the top of
the driver and prepped our first real
test by taking one of those easy ups and
draping some nets on the side for safety
just in case something we catastrophic
be wrong
this was our second learning experience
we didn't have enough contact area for
epoch seeing the head to the driver so
it wasn't a strong enough bond this was
tricky because it meant we had to 3d
scan the club head which allowed us to
cat up and then 3d print a more
contoured mount with more contact area
for the epoxy we also took this chance
to double the rocket holsters because
what could possibly go wrong so we went
to test our new dual rocket set up with
two e motors and everything went
perfectly except for the part where the
head snapped off the driver and when we
reviewed the slow-mo footage what we
realized was the shaft of the driver is
so flexible and it would start to bend
and then create really weird thrust
vectors for the Rockets which then just
bent the shaft even more this is not
what you want to see eventually they
succeeded the stress limit of the shaft
and the head just came off so our third
learning opportunity was to stiffen up
the club shaft so we got some aluminum
c-channel and just dumped a butt ton of
epoxy in there and this worked
remarkably well you could see the
difference here and so with that we
headed out to a very remote shooting
location in beautiful Northern
California so we finally arrived and
started to set up but first I have
something I wanted to get off my chest
so one of the things I like most about
me is that I will I like to reach out to
less or no channels and sort of give
them a hand out at some exposure on my
channel which is why today I'm here with
Destin he's smarter every day and if by
some miracle you don't know Destin is on
the Mount Rushmore of science youtubers
we've been friends for almost exactly
six years and I know this because I took
a screenshot of the huge moment for me
when he subscribed to my channel when I
only had 10,000 subs he's made videos
about the physics of cast landing on
their feet tattoos and super slow-mo or
the first video I saw of him about how
chickens have an internal open feedback
loop which allows them to head track if
you've never seen his stuff I'm actually
jealous because you have so many hours
of high quality viewing in your near
future so I like golf I like Rockets we
do this yeah it's just that that was the
intro right I was did it whatever so we
all can
continue to set up and something that
was important to me was for this to look
as natural as possible at a driving
range so we added some turf to cover the
base plate and then dissected a golf bag
to cover the sturdy steel column and
then if you add some clubs it looks
pretty awesome it's incredibly rigid and
yet it can still swing freely our fourth
learning experience came from reviewing
our final test footage if you listen the
club goes faster and faster with its
rotation naturally we want the club to
contact the ball when it's going to
fastest which in our case is 10
rotations in one second that means we
somehow need to sneak the ball into the
path of the driver in less than a tenth
of a second or a quarter of an eyeblink
to accomplish this we have a pneumatic
cylinder here that hinges up the tee it
knows when to fire because on the back
of the shaft there's a light sensor and
this disc has a slit which allows the
light to pass through once per rotation
so we send that info to an are doing
over here that counts for us and then
after 15 rotations it tells the cylinder
the precise moment to fire using a
solenoid and then we superglue the ball
to the tee because it provides the
goldilocks amount of force to first
secure and then release the ball plus
the superglue looks super dope in
slow-mo so now with everything in place
we started with two e motors which is a
reminder is the same setup that ripped
the club head off three two one roll
we're happy
[Music]
no way that's a cool shot right there it
is
dude this is uh this is respectable this
is legit after reviewing more of the
high-speed footage we noticed something
interesting this was an interesting
technical observation from Destin and
that tea flexibility was causing us to
hit some bad shots like this
an obvious fixed is just to make the tea
more rigid so that it doesn't over
rotate when it pops up but there's a
problem with this there's a saying that
force follow stiffness and for us a
really stiff tea would transfer a bunch
of force and destroy our nice 3d printed
pop-up mechanism now imagine this
crumpled up piece of paper is the tea
which is obviously way less stiff our
flexible rubber tea was great because it
acted like this piece of paper no matter
how hard you hit it the force doesn't
get translated down and damage our
hardware so Kent had the brilliant idea
of just tying a string to the tea and
staking it into the ground this stopped
the over-rotation but everything was
still just as flexible when the string
pulls tight does it make the ball fly
off because it's it doesn't doink enough
the only way to test is the doing test
beautiful there were some Dinkins
I just thought this was a really simple
clever idea that solved both problems at
once and as you can see it worked
perfectly
now we are ready to try a dual F motor
so these deliver about twice as much
force of the club as the e motors that
made the head snap off and this provided
our final and certainly most poignant
learning opportunity one go where's the
club
[Laughter]
[Music]
it's the tree on fire Wow
like I'm laughing but that could have
been bad there we go
this thing was like sub-orbital day so
we have three u-bolts and we only use
two yeah so I think we'll just max out
those and just crank them way down now
that we know this is a failure point now
that we know this is a failure point
there's several failure points and I
hear you say oh we have a solution for
that like I mentioned the club that
failed was cut too short and therefore
only attached using two u-bolts which we
thought would have been enough to
support the 800-pound load from
centrifugal force we did notice the
rubber handle was worn due to so many
test fires which probably initiated the
stress concentration leading to the
failure so our fix was to cut the next
Club longer so we could use three
u-bolts and really crank them down on a
fresh rubber handle and so with all six
of our learnings now in place we tried
the insane double F motors one more time
[Music]
like the brush you get for like an
engineering achievement actually working
is like
so we never found these long balls to
measure the exact distance but I can
drive a ball 280 yards and these were
well beyond that I mean just look at
this trajectory straight to outer space
now that we've got all the shots we
needed it was time to have some real fun
we started with a handheld version that
was powered by a single C motor because
anything more than that would just be
way too unsafe for me to hold like make
it so much easier to swing I'm not even
kidding yeah yeah yeah like it really
meant different 3 2 and then some glass
just because
and then keeping with the tradition of
my channel some watermelon
[Music]
thanks for cutting open a watermelon
with a rocket-powered golf club mark
you're welcome yeah that's all of this
the past three months of work in
engineering was just down to this moment
just to enjoy this watermelon yeah what
marks like trying to make stuff look
good
we're not wait to put though we waste no
part of the engineering effort like the
great Indians with the Buffalo so just a
mini video on his channel about why some
balls bounce high and others don't and
my first thought was well that's easy it
just has to do with how compressible or
rubbery it is give this billiard ball is
pretty much completely solid and this
bouncy ball is pretty rubbery and yet
they bounce to pretty much the same
height so it's something else
as you can imagine this is a pretty
important piece of information for golf
ball makers so there's lots of amazing
slow-mo footage of golf balls being
squished in ways that hurt your brain
plus way more footage from today's shoot
so I will leave a link in the video
description and while you're there make
sure to check out some of his other
videos and subscribe to his channel
because he's just a classy individual
and a true professional in every sense
of the word are you rolling yeah hey
it's me mark if you want to make your
own rocket power golf club you can find
all the CAD files and the parts list
even the code for the Arduino on a
website I created called marker over
build instructions calm and on that site
you'll actually see build instructions
for tons of videos from my channel
including my workbench and it's all for
free and made possible by my friends at
Wix calm and my personal design
aesthetic is simple and clean so I used
a template to get me close to what I
wanted but then I was able to customize
it as much as I wanted from there this
is great for me because I get a lot of
questions about the builds on this
channel and now I'm able to just point
people to one spot and because Wix is on
the ball it automatically looks amazing
on mobile plus it's SEO optimized if
you're looking for people to find your
site through Google and my website is
just a simple way to communicate
information but you can make one for
your personal brand or portfolio or
maybe a new website for your business to
sell stuff online or even book
appointments right there and it's free
to sign up to start designing and
publishing plus it's really fun and a
little bit addictive so to flex your
creative muscles into
Wix because they support me with Luke's
comm slash go slash mark rover we're
just using the link in the video
description thanks for watching
[Music]